---
title: dose over
date: 2013-05-03 09:09 -06:00
tags:
---

This week saw the end of our ecommerce site work with the daughter of store engine completed. The project on a whole was enjoyable although towards the end it was a bit tedious working with very similarly related features. I got to do something Ive wanted to do for a long time which was some data visualisation stuff so that was cool, although painful to figure out (note to self get ALOT better at AREL & SQL). Im glad to be done with the project but I enjoyed the process and learnt a heap so all positive stuff. 

The main differnece in processes between this project and the last project was the correct use of version control and the processes around that. Any problems I had with version control before this project were due to unfamiliarity with how everything worked and a strong fear of merge conflicts. I am now alot more practically versed in the ins and outs of proper version control processes so Im confortable pushing code with good test coverage and pulling in branches to test before merging to master. 6 weeks ago that sentence would have made no real sense to me so again, making good progress.

If I were to continue working on the project I would try to implement a few things. Our site was very reliant on aesthetics, and with good reason for the target consumer. I would expand on this by improving the visual layout for the products index page, perhaps implementing jQuery masonry so that the product images of varying sizes all floated together nicely. On the product show page I would include the option for magnification on image hover over. Also clean up the description into a more succint flow with tabbed info boxes and add options for selecting different sizes and colors etc. I would try to implement a related products listing for upselling. I would also try to go 10x on the metrics. I would add fields on the product table for cost price and shipping price so that I could chart rev - cost - ship and - tax so that there would be a more actionable dashboard for the merchants. Also I would like to implement social media sharing and possibly some data mining stuff on those shares reflected in the dashboard (if thats possible with the 3rd party API's??). I would add alot if I could because the project finished well but was not impressive.

Im really into the idea of data visualisation and mining data to get actionable insights, so the potential to mine data via API's is something that seems to hold alot of promise. Things always seem difficult when you have no concept of where they sit relative to that which you understand. I think I will always remember the day when postgres was mentioned as the database to be used for heroku production. People actually went mad wondering how to implement postgres and whether it was going to be a big concern. It was not. Groups lost days messing around with nothing becasue we let the idea of something being difficult to implement get into our heads. It was bizarre. So lesson learned, this API project will as always just be a collection of little parts that today I wont understand but in a few weeks I will. 

For this project we went HAM on the testing as they say. It was really good, all I really needed was more exposure to writing tests. I never remember the syntax but my brain is not for storing information, its for being efficient at knowing how to find and implement the right info which I can now do to an average level. I will continue to improve on testing and I want it to be one of my strong points when I leave the course (that and basic Ruby operations and patterns). If I had a weakness to single out at the moment it would be those basic Ruby fundamentals. We have been focusing on Rails for the past few weeks and whilst most of the code in Rails is just Ruby, it has been very focused on a few operations. I know now how people can get pretty far on just a little bit of Ruby and a half decent knowledge of Rails. I want to be VERY good with Ruby, not just average so that is something that I am going to refocus on over the coming weeks. That and the implementation of data visualisation becasue I think its cool and one of the (if not the) most valuable end user value prop.

Thinking about the end of the course I know what I want, a job at a rails consultancy in the US. My first shop of preference is Thoughtbot out of SF. I want to live in SF hands down. So if I dont get a job at Thoughtbot then I will find another rails shop there. I want to start my own company, thats always been my goal. The first step towards that is solidifying my learnings from gSchool. It would be a mistake I feel to go home and try to get an MVP of any idea together with the pursuit of getting seed funding and office space from an accellerator back home in Europe. Whilst I think it could be done, I think I would miss the opportunity to become more versed in how the industry as a whole works towards serving consumer business problems with technology from a shop that has many cumulative years of experience serving these needs. Personally I think I need to be a student for a few more years before I branch out on my own, or at least the intelligent play for me is to learn before do. Either way, life after gSchool holds much more promise than it would had I gone into financial services in London.