---
title: Gschool Week 1
date: 2013-02-01 13:26 -07:00
tags:
---
<h1>My First Week at gSchool<h1> 
<hr />--------------------------------------<hr />

If I had to sum up gSchool in a word based on my first week it would be: <strong>tough</strong>. 

No tougher than I expected it to be, and no less, just enough to reiterate my assumptions that the gSchool environment and course will push me to learn a fairly complex skill in a short time frame. Im definitely looking forward to the moment in the next few weeks when things start to click a bit more, but in the meantime its great to be part of a group of students where everyone is willing to help eachother out. I can only assume that the gSchool environment is more conducive to collaboration and group learning than other environments where students would be fighting it out for jobs in one particular company. So for me as a novice programmer, thats extremely helpful, becasue when I ask other possibly more knowledgeable students questions, I wont feel like Im taking away from their competitive edge.

As for moving from Ireland to Denver, things have been going well so far. I havnt had a solid home yet as Ive been bouncing from hotel to airbnb, but on Monday I will have somewhere to actually unpack my bag! Im surprised at how nice everyone in the course is, but I guess its not hard to get on with a whole room of people with similar interests and career aspirations.

All in all Im looking forward to the next 6 months in gSchool and beyond. This course is going to provide me a lot of luxuries that many people dont get (or dont take) such as:
<ul>
<li>being able to get up in the morning and pursue something that I really enjoy</li>
<li>create innovative products,and</li>
<li>be a part of great abstract thinking teams</li>
</ul>
all thanks to the first stepping stone that is <em>gSchool</em>, so I count myself quite lucky. 

Now back to working on a Sunday... :)



