---
title: feeding-time
date: 2013-05-10 11:13 -06:00
tags:
---

For my groups feed engine project we are building a music feed aggregator called Tuneline. Tuneline will integrate with many popular music services and pull in your personal activity with them to display them in a central feed. Its a pretty cool project with a lot of scope to do some interesting things with the well fleshed out API's of the main 3rd party service providers so we should be able to make a cool application. There is a slight risk of trying to do too much becasue of the variety of options available to us but I think we have been pretty focused about what we want and we have tranched our features to hit our MVP by the project specifications before we start trying to get very creative. We also have spent a good amount of time creating realistic wireframes which describe much of what we want built so we have a good blueprint to work off. I think if we build the product that we have in mind it will have a lot of value.

Our team is quite cohesive, we are split into technical and design focused teams. We do mini-stand ups regularly after features have been started and finished. All group members are decent communicators so the project should hopefully run quite smoothly. We are pairing most of the time so there is a good collaborative environement being fostered within our group.

There is not much of a difference between out approach to this project and the shorter ones. This 3 week project as opposed to 2 week project will follow the same agile processes we have used before. We are working often and achieving steady progress so I think we will be fine.

I want to work for a Rails shop that deals primarily with greenfield start-up projects or projects that are within their early life stages. It is important to me that the job be located in a positive economic environment, an active technology community where the weather is good and there is a positive attitude towards solving problems with technology. I want to live in SF because it ticks the majority of the boxes that Im looking for. If I couldnt work and live there I would go where the working environment was heavily focused on producing great value products via the pursuit of individual skill set improvement. I think I am happiest in a front-end capacity, at least thats my feeling right now. However I enjoy the backend development as well and I dont think I would be happy specialising in one compared to the other. I will be a full-stack developer. It will take time to learn and diligence to persue it but I can do that. I anticipate that in 3-4 years I will be fully competent in initialising an application build with a team of developers and have the appreciation of the ins and outs of the front and back end build requirements in order to produce high end solutions. 

If I had a litmus test to know if I have found the right working environment it would be whether they encourage self development to the point where they assign normal work hours to learning. A place that does that shows me that they value the people enough to want them to improve. And they are smart enough to know that its a win-win scenario for their own business value. Thats the kind of place I want to work in. I would also hope that the team in the workplace comes from a diverse range of backgrounds. The more diverse the better