---
title: one third done
date: 2013-03-22 09:04 -06:00
tags:
---

With one third of the course done, I still dont feel like a real developer. The reason being that I have not flown solo yet. I think I will have passed the "Im a developer" test when I can sit down and make something from scratch, thats my definition of being a real developer. Up to know there has been alot of hand holding, which I have needed, but Im ready for a gradual-rapid increase in autonomy. Last week we did a review of the basic concepts which was quite helpful. The best part about it was the individual pace. In the group projects it is difficult to learn at your own pace because you are being dragged along with the pace of the project. Having experienced the pair programming on a few occassions I feel strongly for and against it. I think its a great means of solving problems, two heads are better than one. However I think it is a terrible learning practice becasue it doesnt allow time for reflection on new content and comes with an undercurrent of responsibility to your pair. If you are the weaker member of the pair you feel indebted to them for driving forward the progress and I think this is the major hindrance of personal learning. I found myself always trying to contribute to the next section of the project in an effort to reduce my feeling of indebtedness, whereas I had not yet gotten a full understanding of the recent content covered. This snowballs quickly to the point of neither learning or contributing and just being a passenger in the project.

The course is great. The good => I think its probably the best course around although I would prefer that it were longer. The bad => the mix of those completely new to the course and those with experience effects all the students. For me, an ideal scenario would be a month prepended to the course where the noobs would cover the basics. They would pay more for the extra month, and in total their course would be 7 months long. That way the whole classes' skill level is more normalized come the start of the 'real programme'.

I like Rails, it seems to take a lot of the complexity away from building data queries etc. with ActiveRecord. I have only had a week's experience with it though so I dont really have a fully formed opinion on it. It seems like a good thing. I never really warmed to Sinatra, but I had a bad experience with it. The Sinatra project for me was terrible, I didnt get the hang of it early on and then it was a disaster from then on when the project picked up pace. I think rails will be a better fit for me.

Favourite part of the week was probably the talk from Ben from thoughtbot. He made thoughtbot seem like the greatest place to work, which obviously I take with a pinch of salt. The actual good part about it was that it reinforces my belief that this is the career area that I want to get into. Why? The non-corporate attitude seems to pervade the whole industry, and it allows people to be more creative and to experiment. I know for a fact that my friends in KPMG dont get to take Fridays as investment days where they can experiment with and learn new skills. The also dont get paid as well.

Patrick Collison from Stripe. Why? Hes one of Ireland's biggest tech entrepreneurs and will continue to be more prominent in the future so it would be interesting to hear from him and his start-up experience with Auctomatic and then studying at MIT -> starting up Stripe with his brother. Hes also the same age as me so Im sure he could serve as some inspiration! 
