---
title: son of store engine
date: 2013-04-19 15:21 -06:00
tags:
---

This week saw the end of our son of store engine project. It all broke at the last minute but I think I learned a lot from it even though the end result was less than stellar. An all nighter Wednesday was needed to get most of our issues resolved but we then had a ton of git merge conflicts and everything fell to pieces. Our Heroku hosted app got the brunt of all these errors and we ended up not being able to present our application because it was so messed up. Lessons learned? Deploy earlier, but it is not as much of a pancea as it sounds. The core of our problem for the project was not accepting that the amount asked of us within the time frame was too much to accurately deliver quality code. Maybe this was the lesson to be learned from the project. All I know was that there was too much to try to deliver on and the 10 days as a whole the project was less than average all around instead of being great on a couple of core features.

My organization as a whole was quite good. I did sacrifice lightning talk preparation time to work on the project which came back to bite me. I had planned on doing the bulk of the lightning talk work on the Thursday evening but when we pulled an all nighter Wed I was wrecked on Thursday, slept through until Friday morning and didnt pull it together which is embarassing. Im trying my hardest to learn as much as I can but there is no rushing learning. I think Im a better programmer from the 10 days project but I dont think I was ever in a flow of learning. The time frame was too compressed.

As we are at the halfway point in the course I do feel like I am slowly finding my programming feet and come the end of July I think I will have a good base upon which to build a career in programming. The reason I am here is for a foothold in a career where I will have the opportunity to create things on a daily basis and innovate. This course will give me that start. My ideal outcome for the end of July is to have a job lined up in SF with a small to medium rails shop/consultancy where I will get to be involved with the construction of multiple apps targeted at a multitude of business concerns. I dont think I want to become part of a bigger enterprise becasue I know that I will just be a cog. I need to find an environment where the atmosphere is creative and collaborative and where there are people whom are willing to be mentors. This course is just the beginning of my learning, so I need to provision for an environment where I can broaden my knowledge if I am to be competitive in the industry. Im looking forward to working in the US and living here too. Hopefully I can find the right environment

